Git is a version control system.

Git helps you keep track of code changes.

Git is used to collaborate on code.

git do :
Manage projects with Repositories
Clone a project to work on a local copy
Control and track changes with Staging and Committing
Branch and Merge to allow for work on different parts and versions of a project
Pull the latest version of the project to a local copy
Push local updates to the main project

When a file is changed, added or deleted, it is considered modified
You select the modified files you want to Stage
The Staged files are Committed, which prompts Git to store a permanent snapshot of the files
Git allows you to see the full history of every commit.
You can revert back to any previous commit.

GitHub makes tools that use Git.

Tracked - files that Git knows about and are added to the repository
Untracked - files that are in your working directory, but not added to the repository

When you first add files to an empty repository, they are all untracked. To get Git to track them, 
you need to stage them, or add them to the staging environment.

Staged files are files that are ready to be committed to the repository you are working on.

Git considers each commit change point or "save point". 
It is a point in the project you can go back to if you find a bug, or want to make a change.

When we commit, we should always include a message.
By adding clear messages to each commit, it is easy for yourself (and others) to see what has changed and when.

Short status flags are:

?? - Untracked files
A - Files added to stage
M - Modified files
D - Deleted files

The -a option will automatically stage every changed, already tracked file.

to view history of commits use log command

if you dont remember any commands u can use help command

In Git, a branch is a new/separate version of the main repository.

Branches allow you to work on different parts of a project without impacting the main branch.
When the work is complete, a branch can be merged with the main project.
Branching in Git is very lightweight and fast!










